Create AC Int Code Sample (#5)
shuoniu-intel/oneAPI-samples: DirectProgramming/DPC++FPGA/Tutorials/Features/ac_int/README.md

> # Using the Algorithmic C Integer Data-type 'ac_int'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Using the Algorithmic C Integer Data-type `ac_int`
```

data types should use `monospace font`

> This FPGA tutorial demonstrates how to use the Algorithmic C (AC) Data-type `ac_int` and some best practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This FPGA tutorial demonstrates how to use the Algorithmic C (AC) data type `ac_int` and some best practices.
```

Tech Comms recommends against 'data-type' (should not be hyphenated). Data type (with a space) is preferred. I personally like 'datatype' with no space but Eric said 'data type' was best.

The [oneAPI Programming Guide](https://software.intel.com/en-us/oneapi-programming-guide) is a general resource for target-independent DPC++ programming.

| Optimized for                     | Description
---                                 |---
| OS                                | Linux* Ubuntu* 18.04/20.04, RHEL*/CentOS* 8, SUSE* 15; Windows* 10
| Hardware                          | Intel® Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA <br> Intel® FPGA Programmable Acceleration Card (PAC) D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX) <br> Intel® FPGA 3rd party / custom platforms with oneAPI support <br> *__Note__: Intel® FPGA PAC hardware is only compatible with Ubuntu 18.04* 
| Software                          | Intel® oneAPI DPC++ Compiler <br> Intel® FPGA Add-On for oneAPI Base Toolkit
| What you will learn               | Using the `ac_int` data-type for basic operations <br> Efficiently using the left shift operation <br> Setting and reading certain bits of an `ac_int` number
| Time to complete                  | 20 minutes

> ## Purpose

Reviewer: I don't like that all these sections fall under 'Purpose', but that is what the style guide says: https://wiki.ith.intel.com/display/HLD/oneAPI+Sample+Guidelines

This FPGA tutorial shows how to use the `ac_int` type with some simple examples.

> This data-type can be used in place of native integer types to generate area efficient and optimized designs for the FPGA. For example, operations which do not utilize all of the bits the native integer types are good candidates for replacement with `ac_int` type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This data-type can be used in place of native integer types to generate area efficient and optimized designs for the FPGA. When you have a computation that does not require the full dynamic range of a 32-bit integer, you should replace your `int` variables with `ac_int` variables of the correct, reduced width. For example, if you know that a loop will iterate from 0 to 12, only 4 bits are required.

    ~for(int i = 0; i < 12; i++) { ... }~

    for(ac_int<4, false> i = 0; i < 12; i++) { ... }
```

Reviewer: do we want to mention what to do with `ac_ints` that are larger than native types? that topic doesn't appear in this tutorial.

Author: Is there anything particular about >64 bits ac_int you are thinking of?

Reviewer: large `ac_int`s are often used in cryptographic applications and communications protocols. In the case of cryptographic applications, it's important to specify the operation constraints (e.g. We only supported division up to 128 bits and multiplication up to 512 bits in HLS... not sure whether that changed in oneAPI. https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/programmable/683349/21-4/arbitrary-precision-math-support.html)

Author: I have added "Please refer to the [oneAPI DPC++ FPGA Optimization Guide](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-fpga-optimization-guide/top/optimize-your-design/resource-use/data-types-and-operations/var-prec-fp-sup/adv-disadv-ac-dt.html) to see advantages and limitations of `ac_int` data types" under the "Purpose" section, to inform users the limitations of large `ac_int`'s.

### Simple Code Example

An `ac_int` number can be defined as follows:
```cpp
ac_int<W, S> a;
```

> Here W is the width and S is the sign of the number. Signed numbers use one of the W bits to store the sign information.

Reviewer 2: `W` is the width in bits, and `S` is a `bool` indicating if the number is signed.

To use this type in your code, you must include the following header:

```cpp
#include <sycl/ext/intel/ac_types/ac_int.hpp>
```

> Additionally, you must use the flag `-qactypes` in order to ensure that the headers are correctly included.

Reviewer 2: Instead of 'use the flag', specify where it is used (at the command line when compiling your SYCL program)

For convenience, the following are predefined under the `ac_intN` namespace:
```
ac_int<N, true>  are type defined as intN up to 63.
ac_int<N, false> are type defined as uintN up to 63.

> ```

Reviewer 2: This section doesn't make sense to me.  What does 'up to 63' mean?

For example, a 14 bit signed `ac_int` can be defined by using
```cpp

> ac_intN::int14 a;

Reviewer 2: This seems pretty useless to me.  This is equivalent to ac_int<14, true>, correct?  What's the point of this?

Reviewer: it is neater than writing `ac_int<14, true`. It was better in HLS where we didn't have the `ac_intN` namespace.

@shuoniu-intel is it worth it to mention bounds on how large of an `ac_int` a user can declare? for HLS there wasn't really a limit for how big an ac_int could be (short of the practical limits of the FPGA) but there were constraints on someoperations such as division and multiplication.

Author: @paul-white-intel Since such content is covered in our documentations, I can add something like "Please refer to the oneAPI DPC++ FPGA Optimization Guide for limitations of `ac_int` data types." at the end of section "Basic Operations and Promotion Rules". What do you think?

```

### Understanding the Tutorial Design

The tutorial consists of several functions, each of which contains a SYCL kernel that demonstrates a specific operation. The operations we will see are:
* Addition
* Division
* Multiplication
* Left shift
* Setting a bit of an `ac_int` number
* Reading a bit of an `ac_int` number

#### Basic Operations and Promotion Rules

> When using `ac_int`, we can write Addition, Division, Multiplication operations to use precisely as many bits as are needed to store the results. This is demonstrated by the kernels `Add`, `Div` and `Mult`.

Reviewer 2: Division, AND Multiplication

`ac_int` automatically promotes the result of all operations to the number of bits needed to represent all possible results without overflowing. For example, the addition of two 8-bit integers results in a 9-bit result to support overflow.

> However, if the user attempts to store the result in an 8-bit container, `ac_int` will let the user do this, but this leads to the discard of the extra carry bit. The responsibility lies on the user to use the correct datatype.

Reviewer 2: ...do this, which leads to the most significant bit being discarded.

> However, if the user attempts to store the result in an 8-bit container, `ac_int` will let the user do this, but this leads to the discard of the extra carry bit. The responsibility lies on the user to use the correct datatype.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if the user attempts to store the result in an 8-bit container, `ac_int` will let the user do this, but this leads to the discard of the extra carry bit. The responsibility lies on the user to use the correct data type.
```

I won't change any more of these, I trust you know how to ctrl + h :)

> These promotions rules are consistent across all architectures so the behavior should be equivalent on x86 or on FPGA.

Reviewer 2: promotion (singular)

...behaviour WILL be equivalent...

#### Shift Operation

> The behavior of a shift operation with an `ac_int` is slightly different from its behavior with native integer types. For full details, see the `ac_int` documentation in the file `ac_data_types_ref.pdf`. Some key points to remember are as follows:

Reviewer 2: Where do I find this pdf file?

Oh, I found it as part of this tutorial.  Is that the 'master' copy of this document?  Or does this document have another home?  If so, how will we keep the copy in the tutorial up to date?  If this is the only copy, I think burying it in this tutorial is a bad idea.

Author: I'll remove the copy of this pdf here, and provide a reference to https://hlslibs.org/ in the README just like what our [Optimization Guide](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-fpga-optimization-guide/top/optimize-your-design/resource-use/data-types-and-operations/var-prec-fp-sup/declare-and-use-the-ac-data-types/declare-the-ac-int-data-type.html) is doing.

  - If the datatype of the shift amount is not explicitly `unsigned` (either using `ac_int<N, *false*>` or using the `unsigned` keyword), then the compiler will generate a more complex shifter that allows negative shifts and positive shifts. A right-shift by a negative amount is equivalent to a positive left-shift.

>   - Normally, you will not want to enable negative shifting, so you should use an `unsigned` datatype for the shift value to obtain a more resource efficient design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normally, you will not want to enable negative shifting, so you should use an `unsigned` datatype for the shift value to obtain a more resource efficient shifter.
```

this sentence belongs with the previous bullet point

  - Shift values greater than the width of the data types are treated as a shift equal to the width of the datatype.
  - The shift operation can be done more efficiently by specifying the amount to shift with the smallest possible `ac_int`.

> For example, in the tutorial, two kernels perform the left shift operation: `ShiftLeft` and `EfficientShiftLeft`. Both operate on an 14 bits wide `ac_int`. The former stores the shift amount in an `ac_int` which is 14 bits wide and the latter stores it in an `ac_int` which is 4 bits wide. The latter will generate simpler hardware.

Reviewer 2: a (not an) 14 bits wide

> For example, in the tutorial, two kernels perform the left shift operation: `ShiftLeft` and `EfficientShiftLeft`. Both operate on an 14 bits wide `ac_int`. The former stores the shift amount in an `ac_int` which is 14 bits wide and the latter stores it in an `ac_int` which is 4 bits wide. The latter will generate simpler hardware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in the tutorial, two kernels perform the left shift operation: `ShiftLeft` and `EfficientShiftLeft`. Both operate on a 14 bits wide `ac_int`. The former stores the shift amount in an `ac_int` which is 14 bits wide and the latter stores it in an `ac_int` which is 4 bits wide. The latter will generate simpler hardware.
```

#### Bit Slice Operations

> The kernels `GetBitSlice` and `SetBitSlice` show how to read from and write to specific bits of an `ac_int` number. Note that only static bit widths are supported with such "slice" operations.

Reviewer: You forgot to mention the `[ ]` operator for getting and setting bits. Please note this case which shows that `ac_int`s initialized bit-by-bit should first be set to 0. https://hsdes.intel.com/appstore/article/#/14015829976

For detailed documentation on the `set_slc` and `slc` APIs please see the file `ac_data_types_ref.pdf`

## Key Concepts

> * The `ac_int` data-type can be used to generate hardware for only as many bits as is needed by the operation as compared to native integer types which generate hardware for the entire type width.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `ac_int` data type can be used to generate hardware for only as many bits as are needed by your application. Native integer types must generate hardware for only 8, 16, 32, or 64 bits.
```

> * The left shift operation on `ac_int` can be implemented more efficiently when the amount to shift with is stored in a minimally sized ac_int``.

Reviewer 2: Also right shift?

... amount to shift BY (not with)

> * The `ac_int` data-type offers functions for several useful operations including reading and writing of certain bits of an `ac_int` number. This can be very useful in creating bit masks.

Reviewer 2: I don't think 'creating bit masks' is what you mean to say here, but I'm not sure what you are trying to say . . .

Reviewer: if it's so useful for creating masks, please show an example of creating a mask :)

   * Compile for FPGA hardware (longer compile time, targets FPGA device):
     ```
     nmake fpga
     ``` 

*Note:* The Intel® PAC with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA and Intel® FPGA PAC D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX) do not yet support Windows*. Compiling to FPGA hardware on Windows* requires a third-party or custom Board Support Package (BSP) with Windows* support.<br>
*Note:* If you encounter any issues with long paths when compiling under Windows*, you may have to create your ‘build’ directory in a shorter path, for example c:\samples\build.  You can then run cmake from that directory, and provide cmake with the full path to your sample directory.
 
### In Third-Party Integrated Development Environments (IDEs)

You can compile and run this tutorial in the Eclipse* IDE (in Linux*) and the Visual Studio* IDE (in Windows*).
For instructions, refer to the following link: [Intel® oneAPI DPC++ FPGA Workflows on Third-Party IDEs](https://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/intel-oneapi-dpcpp-fpga-workflow-on-ide)

## Examining the Reports

Locate `report.html` in the `ac_int_report.prj/reports/` directory. Open the report in any of Chrome*, Firefox*, Edge*, or Internet Explorer*.

> Navigate to the *System Viewer* report (*Views* > *System Viewer*) and step through the clusters generated for `ShiftLeft` by clicking on the cluster entires on the left hand side pane under `ShiftLeft` until you find the one that contains the left shift node (`<<`). Similarly locate the cluster containing the left shift node for `EfficientShiftLeft`. Observe that the compiler needs to generate extra logic to deal with the signedness of the b operand for the `ShiftLeft` kernel and hence generates more hardware than for the `EfficientShiftLeft` kernel.

Reviewer 2: Is this the only interesting thing in the reports?

## Running the Sample

1. Run the sample on the FPGA emulator (the kernel executes on the CPU):

   ```bash
   ./ac_int.fpga_emu    # Linux
   ac_int.fpga_emu.exe  # Windows
   ```

2. Run the sample on the FPGA device

   ```bash
   ./ac_int.fpga             # Linux
   ```

### Example of Output

```txt
Arithmetic Operations:
ac_int: +1383 + +966 = +2349
int:    1383 + 966 = 2349
ac_int: +6249 * +966 = +6036534
int:    6249 * 966 = 6036534
ac_int: +2163 / +43 = +50
int:    2163 / 43 = 50

Bitwise Operations:

> ac_int: +7423 << +2 = -3076

Reviewer 2: All of the bitwise operations should display the results in hex or binary, the results don't make much sense in decimal

### Basic Operations and Promotion Rules

When using `ac_int`, the results of addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division operations are automatically promoted to the number of bits needed to represent all possible results without overflowing. However, the data type you use to store the result may result in truncation.

For example, the addition of two 8-bit integers results in a 9-bit result to support overflow. Internally, the result will be 9-bit. However, if the user attempts to store the result in an 8-bit container, `ac_int` will let the user do this, which leads to the most significant bit being discarded. The responsibility lies on the user to use the correct data type.

These promotion rules are consistent across all architectures, so the behavior will be equivalent on x86 or on FPGA.

### Shift Operations

The behavior of shift operations of `ac_int` data types is slightly different from shift operations of native integer types. For full details, see the Algorithmic C (AC) Datatypes documentation available at https://hlslibs.org/. Some key points to remember are as follows:

>   - If the data type of the shift amount is not explicitly `unsigned` (either using `ac_int<N, *false*>` or using the `unsigned` keyword), then the compiler will generate a more complex shifter that allows negative shifts and positive shifts. A shift by a negative amount is equivalent to a positive shift in the opposite direction. Normally, you will not want to use negative shifting, so you should use an `unsigned` data type for the shift value to obtain a more resource efficient shifter.

Reviewer 2: \*false\* does not render as italics in the GitHub markdown viewer, presumably because it's inside back-ticks.  I recommend removing the * notation

Author: Will do.

### Bit Slice Operations

The slice read operation `slc` and the slice write operation `set_slc` allows reading and modifying a slice in an `ac_int`.

Slice read is provided with the template function `slc<int W>(int lsb)`. The two arguments are defined as:
- `W` is the bit length of the slice. It must be known at compile time.
- `lsb` is the index of the LSB of the slice being read.

Slice write is provided with the function `set_slc(int lsb, const ac_int<W, S> &slc)`. The two arguments are defined as:
- `lsb` is the index of the least significant bit (LSB) of the slice being written.
- `slc` is an `ac_int` slice that is to be written into the target `ac_int` starting at bit `lsb`. The bit length of slice is inferred from the width `W` of `slc`.

*Note:* An `ac_int` must be initialized before being accessed by bit slice operations `slc` and `set_slc`. Using the `slc` and `set_slc` functions on an uninitialized `ac_int` variable is undefined behavior and can give you unexpected results.

For full details, see the Algorithmic C (AC) Datatypes documentation available at https://hlslibs.org/.

### Understanding the Tutorial Design

This tutorial consists of five kernels:

> Kernel `BasicOpsInt` contains native `int` type addition, multiplication, and division operations, while kernel `BasicOpsAcInt` contains `ac_int` type addition, multiplication, and division operations. By comparing these two kernels, you will find reduced width `ac_int` generates area efficient hardware than native `int`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kernel `BasicOpsInt` contains native `int` type addition, multiplication, and division operations, while kernel `BasicOpsAcInt` contains `ac_int` type addition, multiplication, and division operations. By comparing these two kernels, you will find reduced width `ac_int` generates hardware that is more area efficient than native `int`.
```

> Kernel `ShiftOp` contains an `ac_int` left shifter and the data type of the shift amount is a large width signed `ac_int`. On contrast, kernel `EfficientShiftOp` also contains an `ac_int` left shifter, but the data type of the shift amount is a reduced width unsigned `ac_int`. By comparing these two kernels, you will find shift operations of `ac_int` can generate more efficient hardware if the amount to shift by is stored in a minimally sized unsigned `ac_int`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kernel `ShiftOp` contains an `ac_int` left shifter and the data type of the shift amount is a large width signed `ac_int`. In contrast, kernel `EfficientShiftOp` also contains an `ac_int` left shifter, but the data type of the shift amount is a reduced width unsigned `ac_int`. By comparing these two kernels, you will find shift operations of `ac_int` can generate more efficient hardware if the amount to shift by is stored in a minimally sized unsigned `ac_int`.
```

| What you will learn               | Using the `ac_int` data type for basic operations <br> Efficiently using the left shift operation <br> Setting and reading certain bits of an `ac_int` number
| Time to complete                  | 20 minutes

## Purpose

This FPGA tutorial shows how to use the `ac_int` data type with some simple examples.

This data type can be used in place of native integer types to generate area efficient and optimized designs for the FPGA. When you have a computation that does not require the full dynamic range of a 32-bit integer, you should replace your `int` variables with `ac_int` variables of the correct, reduced width. For example, if you know that a loop will iterate from 0 to 12, only 4 bits are required.

Please refer to the [oneAPI DPC++ FPGA Optimization Guide](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-fpga-optimization-guide/top/optimize-your-design/resource-use/data-types-and-operations/var-prec-fp-sup/adv-disadv-ac-dt.html) to see advantages and limitations of `ac_int` data types.

### Simple Code Example

An `ac_int` number can be defined as follows:
```cpp
ac_int<W, S> a;
```

> Here `W` is the width in bits and `S` is a bool indicating if the number is signed. Signed numbers use the MSB to store the sign bit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here `W` is the width in bits and `S` is a bool indicating if the number is signed. Signed numbers use the most significant bit (MSB) to store the sign bit.
```

> Here `W` is the width in bits and `S` is a bool indicating if the number is signed. Signed numbers use one of the `W` bits to store the sign information.

Reviewer 3: > Signed numbers use one of the `W` bits to store the sign information.

Can we be more specific and say the MSB?

> To use this type in your code, you must include the following header:

Reviewer 3: "To use this type in your code ..." -> "To use the `ac_int` type in your code ..."

```cpp
#include <sycl/ext/intel/ac_types/ac_int.hpp>
```

> Additionally, you must pass the flag `-qactypes` on Linux or `/Qactypes` on Windows to the `dpcpp` command when compiling your SYCL program in order to ensure that the headers are correctly included.

Reviewer 3: Maybe add something like: "In this project, this is done in `src/CMakeLists.txt`."

### Basic Operations and Promotion Rules

> When using `ac_int`, we can write addition, multiplication, and division operations to use precisely as many bits as are needed to store the results.

Reviewer 3: "... we can write addition ..." -> "... you can use ..."

Reviewer 2: Disagree, Tanner's version doesn't make sense: "You can use X operations to use Y'.  'write' is OK as the verb here, although maybe 'cause' or 'force' is better?

Reviewer 3: I was more so trying to get rid of the "we"

Author: I'll change the "we" to "you" here.

Reviewer 2: >I was more so trying to get rid of the "we"

Ah, sorry missed that part of the change.

BTW, Paul pointed out a great feature that let's you provide a suggestion in PRs, then the result shows up as a clear diff.  It's the little rectangle with a missing corner and a + over a - in the menu above.  Very handy.
```suggestion
When using `ac_int`, you can write addition, multiplication, and division operations to use precisely as many bits as are needed to store the results.
```

> When using `ac_int`, you can write addition, multiplication, and division operations to use precisely as many bits as are needed to store the results.

Reviewer: This paragraph (and the next one) appear to be contradictory. The first one says the user has control over the bit widths used, the second one says the user does not: the compiler chooses bit widths automatically. I've reworded it as follows:

```suggestion
When using `ac_int`, the results of addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division operations are automatically promoted to the number of bits needed to represent all possible results without overflowing. However, the data type you use to store the result may result in truncation.
```

> `ac_int` automatically promotes the result of all operations to the number of bits needed to represent all possible results without overflowing.

Reviewer: remove and replace with my suggestion.

```suggestion
```

> For example, the addition of two 8-bit integers results in a 9-bit result to support overflow. Internally, the result will be 9-bit. However, if the user attempts to store the result in an 8-bit container, `ac_int` will let the user do this, which leads to the most significant bit being discarded. The responsibility lies on the user to use the correct data type.

Reviewer: good example.

These promotion rules are consistent across all architectures, so the behavior will be equivalent on x86 or on FPGA.

### Shift Operations

> The behavior of shift operations in `ac_int` are slightly different from its behavior with native integer types. For full details, see the Algorithmic C (AC) Datatypes documentation available at https://hlslibs.org/. Some key points to remember are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The behavior of shift operations of `ac_int` data types is slightly different from shift operations of native integer types. For full details, see the Algorithmic C (AC) Datatypes documentation available at https://hlslibs.org/. Some key points to remember are as follows:
```

Reviewer: 2 questions about this hlslibs page:

1. Do we endorse the other Algorithmic C libraries? As a user, I would assume that the other AC libraries work just as well as the AC data types, and I am fairly certain we have never validated them.
2. Have we pulled the latest `ac_int.h`? That document says it was updated Nov 2021. Now I remember why I preferred us shipping the PDF ourselves: we guaranteed that we didn't have to keep updating our `ac_int.h` header to keep up with Siemens.

Author: 1. That is a bold assumption. It's true that AC data types libraries are the only portion we've leveraged, but it doesn't imply all other hlslibs libraries are available.
2. Let's discuss this in Wednesday morning's meeting. Since the [oneAPI FPGA Optimization Guide](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-fpga-optimization-guide/top/optimize-your-design/resource-use/data-types-and-operations/var-prec-fp-sup/declare-and-use-the-ac-data-types/declare-the-ac-int-data-type.html) is also referring to that hlslibs website, we should come up with a solution that coordinates this tutorial and the documentation.

>   - If the data type of the shift amount is not explicitly `unsigned` (either using `ac_int<N, *false*>` or using the `unsigned` keyword), then the compiler will generate a more complex shifter that allows negative shifts and positive shifts. A shift by a negative amount is equivalent to a positive shift in the opposite direction. Normally, you will not want to use negative shifting, so you should use an `unsigned` data type for the shift value to obtain a more resource efficient shifter.

Reviewer 3: Question: Does ac_int have optimized code for shifts by a constant? With an native datatype, this becomes simple wire selects. Does the same happen for ac_ints? Or does the constant information get lost? Have we looked into this at all?

Author: `const` makes no difference. The constant information gets lost in the ac_int header.

Check out the signature of function `operator<<` on line 2299 and line 2306 here: https://github.com/hlslibs/ac_types/blob/master/include/ac_int.h#L2299 (I haven't found our SYCL ac_int header, so I'll just refer to hlslibs' copy). The input argument must be a constant reference of the input variable.

Reviewer 3: Sorry, not a `const`, rather, a compile time constant. If I do:
```
ac_int<10, false>x;
x >>= 2;
x >>= y;
```

Do I get a better circuit for the first shift, as opposed to the second? A totally acceptable answer is to tell me to try it for myself :).

Author: Shifting by a compile-time constant does generate less-area hardware in my test. 
Note that there is no difference in generated area between compile-time int and compile-time ac_int. Our compiler must have optimized the compile-time value. 

Check out the report: https://psg-sc-arc.sc.intel.com/p/psg/swip/w/shuoniu/local_tests/sycl_ac_int_bit/test_shifter.prj/reports/report.html#view41

Reviewer 3: I answered my own question. It is yes to both this and slc :)

  - Shift values greater than the width of the data types are treated as a shift equal to the width of the data type.
  - The shift operation can be done more efficiently by specifying the amount to shift with the smallest possible `ac_int`.

### Bit Select Operator

> The bit select operator `[]` allows reading and modifying bits in an `ac_int`.

Reviewer 3: "... reading and modifying bits ..." -> "... reading and modifying an individual bit ..."

> *Note:* An `ac_int` must be initialized before being access by bit select operator `[]`, otherwise, it is undefined behavior and will give you unexpected results.

Reviewer 3: "... before being access ..." -> " ... before being accessed ..."

Reviewer 3: "... and will give you unexpected ..." -> "... and can give you unexpected ..."

> *Note:* An `ac_int` must be initialized before being accessed by bit select operator `[]`, otherwise, it is undefined behavior and can give you unexpected results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note:* You must initialize an `ac_int` variable before accessing it using the bit select operator `[]`. Using the `[]` operator on an uninitialized `ac_int` variable is undefined behavior and can give you unexpected results. Assigning each bit explicitly using the `[]` operator does not count as initializing the `ac_int` variable.
```

Reviewer: This needs to go in the troubleshooting guide too. (I don'think there is one for oneAPI, but HLS had one in its best practices guide: https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/programmable/683152/21-4/advanced-troubleshooting.html)

Author: I've filed a 2022.2 documentation case for this: https://hsdes.intel.com/appstore/article/#/14015887168.

> For full details, see the Algorithmic C (AC) Datatypes documentation available at https://hlslibs.org/.

Reviewer 3: Similar question to the shift: Is the operator[] code of ac_int optimized when the access is a constant?

Author: Haven't tried this yet, but I guess it's a yes just like shifter and slc.

### Bit Slice Operations

The slice read operation `slc` and the slice write operation `set_slc` allows reading and modifying a slice in an `ac_int`.

> Slice read is provided with the template function `slc<int W>(int lsb)`. The two arguments are defined as:

Reviewer 3: Question: would be be worth while to have a new function `slc<int W, int lsb>()` that uses a constant offset for the slc? Or is the slice code already optimized for lsb being a constant?

Author: I think we want to be consistent with HLSLIBs' ac_int header. If that's the case then it's tricky to create function signatures ourselves. @ajaykumarkannan do you have any insight?

But either way, it's beyond the scope of this code sample, right? :)

Reviewer 3: Yep :) Just asking questions.

> - `W` is the bit length of slice. It is constrained to be static so that the length of the slice is known at compile time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `W` is the bit length of the slice. It must be known at compile time.
```

> - `lsb` is the index of the LSB of the slice being read.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `lsb` is the index of the least significant bit (LSB) of the slice being read.
```

Slice write is provided with the function `set_slc(int lsb, const ac_int<W, S> &slc)`. The two arguments are defined as:
- `lsb` is the index of the LSB of the slice being written.

> - `slc` is an `ac_int` slice. The bit length of slice is inferred from the width `W` of `slc`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `slc` is an `ac_int` slice that is to be written into the target `ac_int` starting at bit `lsb`. The bit length is inferred from the width `W` of `slc`.
```

> *Note:* An `ac_int` must be initialized before being access by bit slice operations `slc` and `set_slc`, otherwise, it is undefined behavior and will give you unexpected results.

Reviewer 3: "... before being access ..." -> "... before being accessed ..."

> *Note:* An `ac_int` must be initialized before being accessed by bit slice operations `slc` and `set_slc`, otherwise, it is undefined behavior and can give you unexpected results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note:* An `ac_int` must be initialized before being accessed by bit slice operations `slc` and `set_slc`. Using the `slc` and `set_slc` functions on an uninitialized `ac_int` variable is undefined behavior and can give you unexpected results.
```

For full details, see the Algorithmic C (AC) Datatypes documentation available at https://hlslibs.org/.

### Understanding the Tutorial Design

> This tutorial consists of five kernels as following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial consists of five kernels:
```

> Kernel `BasicOpsInt` contains native `int` type addition, multiplication, and division operations, while kernel `BasicOpsAcInt` contains `ac_int` type addition, multiplication, and division operations. By comparing these two kernels, you will find reduced width `ac_int` generates more efficient hardware than native `int`.

Reviewer 3: More efficient, or less?

Reviewer 3: I guess this could be the same.

Author: More efficient means less area here.

Reviewer 3: Maybe say that explicitly then?

Author: Will do.

> Kernel `ShiftOp` contains an `ac_int` left shifter and the data type of the shift amount is a large width signed `ac_int`. On contrast, kernel `EfficientShiftOp` also contains an `ac_int` left shifter, but the data type of the shift amount is a reduced width unsigned `ac_int`. By comparing these two kernels, you will find shift operations of `ac_int` can generate more efficient hardware if the amount to shift by is stored in a minimally sized unsigned `ac_int`.

Reviewer: I like that the report shows both the right shift and left shift

Author: Sure, I can add a right shift to the kernel.

> Kernel `BitOps` demonstrates bit operations with bit select operator `[]` and bit slice operations `slc` and `set_slc`.

Reviewer 3: This may be a bad thing to show because of this: https://hsdes.intel.com/appstore/article/#/14015854613

Author: Do you prefer to remove the demonstration of bit operations for now until the reporting is fixed?

Reviewer 3: I am not sure. Depends on what we plan to do about the case. If we don't plan to fix the reporting issue, maybe this would be a good place explain it. @ajaykumarkannan ?

   * Compile for FPGA hardware (longer compile time, targets FPGA device):
     ```
     nmake fpga
     ``` 

*Note:* The Intel® PAC with Intel Arria® 10 GX FPGA and Intel® FPGA PAC D5005 (with Intel Stratix® 10 SX) do not yet support Windows*. Compiling to FPGA hardware on Windows* requires a third-party or custom Board Support Package (BSP) with Windows* support.<br>
*Note:* If you encounter any issues with long paths when compiling under Windows*, you may have to create your ‘build’ directory in a shorter path, for example c:\samples\build.  You can then run cmake from that directory, and provide cmake with the full path to your sample directory.
 
### In Third-Party Integrated Development Environments (IDEs)

You can compile and run this tutorial in the Eclipse* IDE (in Linux*) and the Visual Studio* IDE (in Windows*).
For instructions, refer to the following link: [Intel® oneAPI DPC++ FPGA Workflows on Third-Party IDEs](https://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/intel-oneapi-dpcpp-fpga-workflow-on-ide)

## Examining the Reports

Locate `report.html` in the `ac_int_report.prj/reports/` directory. Open the report in any of Chrome*, Firefox*, Edge*, or Internet Explorer*.

> On the main report page, scroll down to the section titled *Compile Estimated Kernel Resource Utilization Summary*. You can see the overall resource usage of kernel `BasicOpsAcInt` is less than kernel `BasicOpsInt`. Navigate to *Area Analysis of System* (*Area Analysis* > *Area Analysis of System*), you can find resource usage of individual addition, multiplication, and division operations, and you can verify each individual operation consumes less resource in kernel `BasicOpsAcInt` than in kernel `BasicOpsInt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the main report page, scroll down to the section titled *Compile Estimated Kernel Resource Utilization Summary*. You can see the overall resource usage of kernel `BasicOpsAcInt` is less than kernel `BasicOpsInt`. Navigate to *Area Analysis of System* (*Area Analysis* > *Area Analysis of System*), you can find resource usage information of the individual addition, multiplication, and division operations, and you can verify each individual operation consumes fewer resources in kernel `BasicOpsAcInt` than in kernel `BasicOpsInt`.
```

> Navigate to *System Viewer* (*Views* > *System Viewer*) and find the cluster in kernel `ShiftOp` that contains the left-shifter node (`<<`). Similarly, locate the cluster that contains the left-shifter node in kernel `EfficientShiftOp`. Observe that the compiler generates extra logic in kernel `ShiftOp` to deal with the signedness of shift amount. You can verify that kernel `ShiftOp` consumes more resource than kernel `EfficientShiftOp` in *Compile Estimated Kernel Resource Utilization Summary* on the main report page and *Area Analysis of System*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to *System Viewer* (*Views* > *System Viewer*) and find the cluster in kernel `ShiftOp` that contains the left-shifter node (`<<`). Similarly, locate the cluster that contains the left-shifter node in kernel `EfficientShiftOp`. Observe that the compiler generates an additional shifter in kernel `ShiftOp` to deal with the signedness of the shift amount `b`. You can verify that kernel `EfficientShiftOp` consumes fewer resources than kernel `ShiftOp` in *Compile Estimated Kernel Resource Utilization Summary* on the main report page and *Area Analysis of System*.
```

consistent sentence structure with the `BasicOps` paragraph above.
